Akamai API Management Script
============================

Overview
--------

| This Python script provides automation for managing Akamai API
  definitions via Akamai’s APIs.
| It integrates with AWS Secrets Manager for secure storage of
  credentials and uses Akamai EdgeGrid authentication.

The script supports operations such as: - Checking API versions and lock
status. - Cloning API versions. - Updating API definitions with Swagger
(JSON/YAML). - Activating Akamai's API definiton versions in staging and/or production 
environments.

Requirements
------------

-  Python 3.7+
-  Dependencies: argparse, requests, json, yaml, os, base64, boto3,
   akamai.edgegrid

Install dependencies with:

.. code:: bash

   pip install -r requirements.txt

AWS Setup
---------

You must configure AWS Secrets Manager to store the following
credentials: - ``client_secret`` - ``access_token`` - ``client_token`` -
``host``

Update the following placeholders in the script: -
``TODO#_add_secret_name`` - ``TODO#_add_region name(us-east-1)`` -
``TODO#_Add_roleARn_number`` - ``TODO#Add_Akamai_contract_ID`` -
``TODO#_Add_group_ID``

Usage
-----

| Run the script with one or more CLI options.
| Common arguments include:

-  ``-vck`` / ``--check_version`` → Check current API version(s) and
   lock status.
-  ``-capi`` / ``--clone_API`` → Clone the selected API version.
-  ``-update`` / ``--update_def`` → Update API definition with a Swagger
   file.
-  ``-sinPush`` / ``--single_api_push`` → Push API definition to a
   single environment.
-  ``-bothPush`` / ``--both_env_api_push`` → Push API definition to both
   environments.
-  ``-apiId`` / ``--api_ID`` → API definition ID.
-  ``-verNum`` / ``--ver_Num`` → API version number.
-  ``-filepath`` / ``--file_path`` → Path to Swagger JSON/YAML file.
-  ``-envir`` / ``--environment`` → Target environment (STAGING or
   PRODUCTION).
-  ``-env1``, ``-env2`` → Environments for dual push.

Example Commands
----------------

Check version info:

.. code:: bash

   python script.py -vck -apiId 12345

Clone an API version:

.. code:: bash

   python script.py -capi -apiId 12345 -verNum 2

Update an API definition:

.. code:: bash

   python script.py -update -apiId 12345 -verNum 3 -filepath ./swagger.yaml

Push to staging:

.. code:: bash

   python script.py -sinPush -apiId 12345 -verNum 3 -envir STAGING

Push to both environments:

.. code:: bash

   python script.py -bothPush -apiId 12345 -verNum 3 -env1 STAGING -env2 PRODUCTION

Notes
-----

-  Make sure your Swagger file is valid JSON or YAML.
-  Ensure your AWS Secrets Manager entry matches the expected key names.
-  Do not reuse the same environment for ``-env1`` and ``-env2``.
-  All TODO placeholders in the script must be configured before
   running.

--------------

| Author: *Will Crews*
| Version: 3.0
